Api Gateway Dual GW Arch model documentation update (#2500)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/consul/v2.0.x/content/docs/north-south/api-gateway/k8s/enable.mdx

# END AUTO GENERATED METADATA
---

> # Enable stable API gateway for Kubernetes

Reviewer: A practitioner that is opening these docs for the first time has no notion whether they need a stable or unstable API gateway, we should not introduce this term in the title, nor in the content until we have described what the differences between stable and unstable are.

Author: It is not unstable. It will be a custom Gateway ( New Controller which we introduced). So what would be your suggestions here?

# END AUTO GENERATED METADATA
---

> # Enable standard API gateway for Kubernetes

Reviewer: A single-hash line like this ( # TEXT ) is the document title. It is only one per file, you must not have more than one.

Therefore this should say "Enable API gateway for Kubernetes" for a title, and the specifics about which one should come later.

# Enable API gateway for Kubernetes

> Before Consul 2.0, API gateways were managed by the API group `gateway.networking.k8s.io` called as Standard API gateway. Consul 2.0 introduces the Consul API gateway controller and the new API gateway CRDs under the API Group `consul.hashicorp.com`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before Consul 2.0, the API group `gateway.networking.k8s.io` managed API gateways, called Standard API gateway. Consul 2.0 introduces the Consul API gateway controller and the new API gateway CRDs under the API Group `consul.hashicorp.com`.
```

> The _Standard API gateway_ controller is the recommended way to deploy the API gateway and is the default installation choice. It uses the API Group `gateway.networking.k8s.io`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend the standard API gateway installation approach, which is the default installation choice. It uses the API Group `gateway.networking.k8s.io`.
```

> The _Consul API gateway_ controller is  intended for the platforms that manage gateway CRDs under API group `gateway.networking.k8s.io` in version `v1` and is below 1.6.0 package version of the API group `gateway.networking.k8s.io`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the Consul API gateway controller for the platforms that manage gateway CRDs under the API group `gateway.networking.k8s.io` in version `v1` and is below 1.6.0 package version of the API group `gateway.networking.k8s.io`.
```

Both controllers are supported by Consul's Helm chart.

Before you begin the installation process, verify that the environment you are deploying Consul and the API gateway in meets the requirements listed in the [Technical Specifications](/consul/docs/north-south/api-gateway/k8s/tech-specs). Refer to the [Release Notes](/consul/docs/release-notes) for any additional information about the version you are deploying.

> If the platform manages the gateway CRDs under the API group `gateway.networking.k8s.io` or if any other application or user externally installed these CRDs, set `global.installK8sNetworkingCRDs: false`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Consul API gateway ships with Consul and can be installed directly when you install Consul on Kubernetes.

Before Consul 2.0, API gateways were managed by the API group `gateway.networking.k8s.io`.  This configuration is referred to as *Standard API gateway*.

Consul 2.0 introduces the Consul API gateway controller and the new API gateway CRDs under the API Group `consul.hashicorp.com`. This configuration is referred to as *Consul API gateway*.

Both controllers are supported by Consul's Helm chart.

If your environment supports it, we recommend the standard API gateway installation approach, which is the default installation choice.

Before you begin the installation process, verify that the environment you are deploying Consul and the API gateway in meets the requirements listed in the [Technical Specifications](/consul/docs/north-south/api-gateway/k8s/tech-specs). Refer to the [Release Notes](/consul/docs/release-notes) for any additional information about the version you are deploying.
```

Reviewer 4: Applied suggestion manually

> If the gateway CRDs under the API group `gateway.networking.k8s.io` are managed by the platform or if these CRDs are externally installed by any other application or user we set `global.installK8sNetworkingCRDs: false`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the platform manages the gateway CRDs under the API group `gateway.networking.k8s.io` or if any other application or user externally installed these CRDs, set `global.installK8sNetworkingCRDs: false`.
```

> 1. The Consul Helm chart deploys the Standard/Consul API gateway using the configuration specified in the `values.yaml` file. Refer to [Helm Chart Configuration - `connectInject.apiGateway`](/consul/docs/reference/k8s/helm#apigateway) for information about the Helm chart configuration options. Create a `values.yaml` file for configuring your Consul API gateway deployment and include the following settings:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

### Select your API gateway implementation

If your environment supports it, we recommend the standard API gateway installation approach, which is the default installation choice.

Use the Consul API gateway controller for the platforms that manage gateway CRDs under the API group `gateway.networking.k8s.io` in version `v1` and is below 1.6.0 package version of the API group `gateway.networking.k8s.io`.

If the platform manages the gateway CRDs under the API group `gateway.networking.k8s.io` or if any other application or user externally installed these CRDs, set `global.installK8sNetworkingCRDs: false`.

Create a `values.yaml` file for configuring your Consul API gateway deployment and include the following settings:
```

# Enable API gateway for Kubernetes

The Consul ships both Consul API Gateway and Standard API Gateway.
Consul version 2.0 introduces the Consul API Gateway controller and the new API Gateway CRDs under the API Group `consul.hashicorp.com`.

<Note>

The Standard API Gateway controller is installed by default and is the recommended way to deploy the API gateway under the API Group `gateway.networking.k8s.io`.

</Note>

The Consul API Gateway controller is installed when you enable the `crds.consulapi.enabled` or `global.openshift.crds.consulapi.enabled` parameter in the `values.yaml` file. The Consul API Gateway controller is recommended only under the following condition:
  1. When the user is using TCPRoute associated to the API Gateway and Gateway CRDs are managed by the platform under version v1 under the API group `gateway.networking.k8s.io` and not supporting TCPRoute CRD installation.

> 

Reviewer 3: I think this is unecessarily long.

```suggestion
Consul 2.0 introduces the Consul API Gateway controller and the new API Gateway CRDs under the API Group `consul.hashicorp.com`.

The _Standard API Gateway_ controller is the recommended way to deploy the API gateway and is the default installation choice. It uses the API Group `gateway.networking.k8s.io`.

The _Consul API Gateway_ controller is  intended for installation that do not support TCPRoute CRD installation and use TCPRoute associated to the API Gateway with Gateway CRDs managed by the platform using version `v1` of the API group `gateway.networking.k8s.io`.

Both controllers are supported by Consul's Helm chart.
```

### Confusing paragraph

I am having an hard time decoding this:

> The Consul ships both Consul API Gateway and Standard API Gateway.
> Consul version 2.0 introduces the Consul API Gateway controller and the new API Gateway CRDs under the API Group `consul.hashicorp.com`.

From the text seems that both API Gateway (Consul and Standard) are introduced with Consul 2.0 but I do not think this is the case.

I think we should start the paragraph with something like:

> Before Consul 2.0, API gateways were managed by the API group `gateway.networking.k8s.io`. We call this _Consul API Gateway_. Consul 2.0 introduces ...

Please rephrase it with the proper information.

### Naming conventions

Also it is counter intuitive for me that the "old" version is named `Consul` and the "new" version is named `Standard`.

### Capitalization

Before this PR we (almost) always used `API gateway` with lowercase `g` to define the feature. In this PR we move between `API Gateway` and `API gateway`. I think we should adopt the standard naming `API gateway` across all documentation, including this PR.

Reviewer 4: Accepted all comments and worked.
Just to clarify , the older API gateway is Standard api gateway and newer is Consul Api gateway.

# Enable API gateway for Kubernetes

> ## Enable Standard/Consul API gateway for Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is a repeat of the main title and adds no value, furthermore it would confuse practitioners by referring to "Standard API gateway" and "Consul API gateway" before explaining which one means what and what the difference is.

Reviewer 4: Removed the heading as suggested.

    ```yaml
    global:
      installK8sNetworkingCRDs: true

>       name: consul

Reviewer: This is unrelated to the current topic of enabling API gateways on K8s

Author: This is a very necessary parameter and this is needed.

Reviewer: This comment is for line 37, the `global.name` element, not for `installK8sNetworkingCRDs`. Github renders the previous 3 lines automatically and I cannot turn that off. Please look at the code reviews from the "Files changed" github tab and not the main `Conversation` tab.

    </CodeBlockConfig>
    </Tab>

    <Tab heading="OpenShift (OCP <=4.18)">

>     If you are installing Consul on an OpenShift Kubernetes cluster version 4.18 or earlier, you must include the `global.openShift.enabled` parameter and set it to `true`. Refer to [OpenShift requirements](/consul/docs/connect/gateways/api-gateway/tech-specs#openshift-requirements) for additional information.

Reviewer: The tab heading already includes the OCP version, we do not need to repeat it in the description. Here's a suggestion:

```suggestion
    On an OpenShift Kubernetes cluster, you must set the `global.openShift.enabled` parameter to `true`. Refer to [OpenShift requirements](/consul/docs/connect/gateways/api-gateway/tech-specs#openshift-requirements) for additional information.
```

    <CodeBlockConfig filename="values.yaml">

     ```yaml
     global:
       installK8sNetworkingCRDs: true
       openshift:
         enabled: true
     connectInject:
       enabled: true
       apiGateway:
         manageExternalCRDs: true
       cni:
         enabled: true
         logLevel: info
         multus: true
         cniBinDir: "/var/lib/cni/bin"
         cniNetDir: "/etc/kubernetes/cni/net.d"
     ```
    </CodeBlockConfig>
    </Tab>

    <Tab heading="OpenShift (OCP >=4.19)">

>     If you are installing Consul on an OpenShift Kubernetes cluster version 4.19 or later, you must include the `global.openShift.enabled` parameter and set it to `true`. Refer to [OpenShift requirements](/consul/docs/connect/gateways/api-gateway/tech-specs#openshift-requirements) for additional information. Furthermore, if your OpenShift cluster is version 4.19 or later, you may choose to use new Kubernetes resource types in the `consul.hashicorp.com` API resource group. These types provide additional support for Consul on OpenShift Container Platform (OCP). For guidance, refer to the related [resource types upgrade procedure](/consul/docs/north-south/api-gateway/k8s/resource-upgrade).

Reviewer: The tab heading already includes the OCP version, we do not need to repeat it in the description. Furthermore, the version statement occurs twice and sounds unnatural.

Here's a suggestion on how to frame the content:

```suggestion
    On an OpenShift Kubernetes cluster, you must set the `global.openShift.enabled` parameter to `true`. Refer to [OpenShift requirements](/consul/docs/connect/gateways/api-gateway/tech-specs#openshift-requirements) for additional information. To use the new Kubernetes resource types from the `consul.hashicorp.com` API resource group, refer to the related [resource types upgrade procedure](/consul/docs/north-south/api-gateway/k8s/resource-upgrade).
```

      openshift:
        enabled: true
        crds:
          enableTcpRoute: false
          consulapi:
            enabled: false
    connectInject:
      enabled: true
      apiGateway:
        manageExternalCRDs: true
      cni:
        enabled: true
        logLevel: info
        multus: true
        cniBinDir: "/var/lib/cni/bin"
        cniNetDir: "/etc/kubernetes/cni/net.d"
    ```
    </CodeBlockConfig>
    </Tab>

     <Tab heading="OpenShift (OCP >=4.19) for Consul API gateway to support TCP route CRD">

    <CodeBlockConfig filename="values.yaml">

    ```yaml
    global:
      installK8sNetworkingCRDs: false
      openshift:
        enabled: true
        crds:
          enableTcpRoute: false
          consulapi:
            enabled: true
    connectInject:
      enabled: true
      apiGateway:
        manageExternalCRDs: true
      cni:
        enabled: true
        logLevel: info
        multus: true
        cniBinDir: "/var/lib/cni/bin"
        cniNetDir: "/etc/kubernetes/cni/net.d"
    ```
    </CodeBlockConfig>
    </Tab>

    <Tab heading="GKE Autopilot">

    By default, GKE Autopilot installs [Gateway API resources](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io).

>     The following working example enables both Consul Service Mesh and Standard API gateway on GKE Autopilot. Refer to [`connectInject.agiGateway` in the Helm chart reference](https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul/docs/reference/k8s/helm#v-connectinject-apigateway) for additional information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The following working example enables both Consul service mesh and the Standard API gateway on GKE Autopilot. Refer to [`connectInject.agiGateway` in the Helm chart reference](https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul/docs/reference/k8s/helm#v-connectinject-apigateway) for additional information.
```

    To support TCP route CRDs use Consul API gateway by setting `global.crds.consulapi.enabled: true`.

    <CodeBlockConfig filename="values.yaml">

    ```yaml
    global:
      installK8sNetworkingCRDs: false
      crds:
        consulapi:
          enabled: false
    connectInject:
      enabled: true
      apiGateway:
        manageExternalCRDs: false
        manageNonStandardCRDs: true
     ```
    </CodeBlockConfig>
    </Tab>

    <Tab heading="Kubernetes Clusters with Gateway CRDs managed by cluster platforms">

    To support TCP route CRDs use Consul API gateway by setting `global.crds.consulapi.enabled: true`.

    <CodeBlockConfig filename="values.yaml">

    ```yaml
    global:
      installK8sNetworkingCRDs: false
      crds:
        consulapi:
          enabled: false
    connectInject:
      enabled: true
      apiGateway:
        manageExternalCRDs: false
        manageNonStandardCRDs: true
     ```
    </CodeBlockConfig>
    </Tab>
  </Tabs>

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

The Consul Helm chart deploys the Standard/Consul API gateway using the configuration specified in the `values.yaml` file. 

Refer to [Helm Chart Configuration - `connectInject.apiGateway`](/consul/docs/reference/k8s/helm#apigateway) for information about the Helm chart configuration options. 

```

## API gateway Reconciliation

> Starting Consul 2.0, Consul only reconciles API gateway resources that meet specific requirements. For Consul to manage an API gateway, the gateway must:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consul only reconciles API gateway resources that meet specific requirements. For Consul to manage an API gateway, the gateway must:
```

1. Include the required labels in the gateway metadata

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Standard API gateway">

<CodeBlockConfig>

```yaml
labels:
  component: api-gateway  
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Consul API gateway">

<CodeBlockConfig>

```yaml
labels:
  component: api-gateway-consul 
```

</CodeBlockConfig>
</Tab>

</Tabs>
2. Specify the correct controller name that matches the gateway type.

Consul validates both criterias before reconciling the gateway object.

## Standard API gateway

> For the standard Kubernetes Gateway API (using API Group `gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1`), the gateway must:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the standard Kubernetes Gateway API that uses API Group `gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1`, the gateway must:
```

- Set the `gatewayClassName` to reference a GatewayClass with controller name `consul.hashicorp.com/gateway-controller`
- Include the label `component: api-gateway` in the metadata

Example configuration:

<CodeBlockConfig>

```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Gateway
metadata:
  name: api-gateway # can be modified 
  namespace: consul # can be modified
  labels:
    component: api-gateway # Do not modify this
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

## Consul API gateway

> For the  Consul Gateway resource (using API Group `consul.hashicorp.com/v1beta1`), the gateway must:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the  Consul Gateway resource that uses API Group `consul.hashicorp.com/v1beta1`, the gateway must:
```

    </CodeBlockConfig>
    </Tab>

    <Tab heading="OpenShift (OCP <=4.18)">

>     On an OpenShift Kubernetes cluster, user must include the `global.openShift.enabled` parameter and set it to `true`. Refer to [OpenShift requirements](/consul/docs/connect/gateways/api-gateway/tech-specs#openshift-requirements) for additional information.

Reviewer: This line is redundant since the tab already says "OpenShift" and the values.yaml example has `global.openshift.enabled: true`.

```suggestion
```

    <CodeBlockConfig filename="values.yaml">

     ```yaml
     global:
       installK8sNetworkingCRDs: true
       openshift:
         enabled: true
     connectInject:
       enabled: true
       apiGateway:
         manageExternalCRDs: true
       cni:
         enabled: true
         logLevel: info
         multus: true
         cniBinDir: "/var/lib/cni/bin"
         cniNetDir: "/etc/kubernetes/cni/net.d"
     ```
    </CodeBlockConfig>
    </Tab>

    <Tab heading="OpenShift (OCP >=4.19)">

>     On an OpenShift Kubernetes cluster, user must include the `global.openShift.enabled` parameter and set it to `true`. Refer to [OpenShift requirements](/consul/docs/connect/gateways/api-gateway/tech-specs#openshift-requirements) for additional information. Furthermore, user may choose to use the new Kubernetes resource types in the `consul.hashicorp.com` API resource group. These types provide additional support for Consul on OpenShift Container Platform (OCP). For guidance, refer to the related [resource types upgrade procedure](/consul/docs/north-south/api-gateway/k8s/resource-upgrade).

Reviewer: Same as line 49 comment.

Also, if the user chooses to use the new resource types, how does that affect the values.yaml file? Is this example with the new resource types or without?

    ```yaml
    global:
      installK8sNetworkingCRDs: false
      crds:
        consulapi:
          enabled: true
    connectInject:
      enabled: true
      apiGateway:
        manageExternalCRDs: true
    ```

    </CodeBlockConfig>
    </Tab>

    <Tab heading="Reference configuration to deploy both Standard and Consul API Gateway">
    <CodeBlockConfig filename="values.yaml">

    ```yaml
    global:
      installK8sNetworkingCRDs: true
      crds:
        consulapi:
          enabled: true
    connectInject:
      enabled: true
      apiGateway:
        manageExternalCRDs: true
    ```

    </CodeBlockConfig>
    </Tab>

    <Tab heading="OpenShift (OCP <=4.18)">

    <CodeBlockConfig filename="values.yaml">

    ```yaml
    global:
      installK8sNetworkingCRDs: true
      openshift:
        enabled: true
        crds:
          consulapi:
            enabled: false
    connectInject:
      enabled: true
      apiGateway:
        manageExternalCRDs: true
      cni:
        enabled: true
        logLevel: info
        multus: true
        cniBinDir: "/var/lib/cni/bin"
        cniNetDir: "/etc/kubernetes/cni/net.d"
     ```
    </CodeBlockConfig>
    </Tab>

>     <Tab heading="OpenShift (OCP >=4.19)">

Reviewer 5: The tab shows consulapi.enabled: false and manageExternalCRDs: true — this is wrong for OCP ≥4.19 and will reproduce the ValidatingAdmissionPolicy error customers hit on upgrade. Correct values should be:

```
global:
  installK8sNetworkingCRDs: false
  openshift:
    enabled: true
    isOcpGreaterthan4_18: true     # missing from current PR
    crds:
      consulapi:
        enabled: true              # currently shows false — must be true
connectInject:
  apiGateway:
    manageExternalCRDs: false      # currently shows true — must be false for OCP ≥4.19
    manageNonStandardCRDs: true    # missing from current PR
```

Reviewer 4: fixed.

     ```yaml
     global:
       installK8sNetworkingCRDs: false
       name: consul
     connectInject:
       enabled: true
       apiGateway:
         manageExternalCRDs: false
         manageNonStandardCRDs: true

>        cni:

Reviewer: Why is this section removed? Our docs exactly recommend having the CNI plugin in GKE without `multus` enabled [here](https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul/docs/deploy/server/k8s/helm#enable-the-consul-cni-plugin).

Author: cni is unsupported in GKE Autopilot.
ref: https://docs.cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/concepts/autopilot-security

Reviewer: But this is the `<Tab heading="OpenShift (OCP >=4.19)">` section and not GKE?

     ```yaml
     global:
       installK8sNetworkingCRDs: false

>        name: consul

Reviewer: This is unrelated to the current topic of enabling API gateways on K8s

Author: without this flag, customer may end up in 'API Gateway deployment failure"

Author: This is a very necessary parameter and this is needed.

Reviewer: This comment is for line 108, the `global.name` element, not for `installK8sNetworkingCRDs`. Github renders the previous 3 lines automatically and I cannot turn that off. Please look at the code reviews from the "Files changed" github tab and not the main `Conversation` tab.

     connectInject:
       enabled: true
       apiGateway:
         manageExternalCRDs: false
         manageNonStandardCRDs: true
     server:
       resources:
         requests:
           memory: "500Mi"
           cpu: "500m"
         limits:
           memory: "500Mi"

>            cpu: "500m"

Reviewer: This is unrelated to the current topic of enabling API gateways on K8s

     ```
    </CodeBlockConfig>
    </Tab>

    <Tab heading="Kubernetes Clusters with Gateway CRDs managed by cluster platforms">

    <CodeBlockConfig filename="values.yaml">

    ```yaml
     global:
       installK8sNetworkingCRDs: false

>        name: consul

Reviewer: This is unrelated to the current topic of enabling API gateways on K8s

Author: This is a very necessary parameter and this is needed.

Reviewer: This comment is for line 133, the `global.name` element, not for `installK8sNetworkingCRDs`. Github renders the previous 3 lines automatically and I cannot turn that off. Please look at the code reviews from the "Files changed" github tab and not the main `Conversation` tab.

Reviewer 4: removed name:consul optional parameter.

         manageNonStandardCRDs: true
     ```
    </CodeBlockConfig>
    </Tab>
  </Tabs>

1. Install Consul API Gateway using the standard Consul Helm chart or Consul K8s CLI specify the custom values file. Refer to the [Consul Helm chart](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul-k8s/releases) in GitHub releases for the available versions.

  <Tabs>
  <Tab heading="Consul K8s CLI (Mac Only)">
  
  Refer to the official [Consul K8S CLI documentation](/consul/docs/reference/cli/consul-k8s) to find additional settings.
  
  ```shell-session
  $ brew tap hashicorp/tap
  ```
  
  ```shell-session
  $ brew install hashicorp/tap/consul-k8s
  ```
  
  ```shell-session
  $ consul-k8s install -config-file=values.yaml -set global.image=hashicorp/consul:1.17.0
  ```
  
  </Tab>
  <Tab heading="Helm">
  
  Add the HashiCorp Helm repository.
  
  ```shell-session
  $ helm repo add hashicorp https://helm.releases.hashicorp.com
  ```
  
  Install Consul with API Gateway on your Kubernetes cluster by specifying the `values.yaml` file.
  
  ```shell-session
  $ helm install consul hashicorp/consul --version 1.3.0 --values values.yaml --create-namespace --namespace consul
  ```
  
  </Tab>

>   </Tabs>

Reviewer: These are generic instructions for installing Consul and are unrelated to the API gateway - we have other documentation on how to do that. A better option would be how to upgrade a live deployment and enable the API gateway in it.

Author: We have those details in the resource-upgrade; I will be creating a new PR for it as discussed

> # Enable Consul API gateway for Kubernetes

Reviewer: There should be only one single-hash element and that should be the doc title. This is a subtitle, therefore it should be under two hashes (##)

    </CodeBlockConfig>
    </Tab>

>     <Tab heading="Kubernetes Clusters with Gateway CRDs managed cluster platforms">

Reviewer: - The tab heading should be shorter
- There should be an empty line between the `<Tab>` and `<CodeBlockConfig>` elements so that they render properly. Currently the code block config does not render in the preview.

Author: Tab heading here provides a good info, I am not sure to reduce it to a couple of words

    <CodeBlockConfig filename="values.yaml">
    ```yaml
     global:
       installK8sNetworkingCRDs: false
       name: consul
     connectInject:
       enabled: true
       apiGateway:
         manageExternalCRDs: false
         manageNonStandardCRDs: true

>      server:

Reviewer: The following stanza is not related to the API gateway deployment, therefore should not be included. I see the same was already present in the `GKE Autopilot` tab and probably that ended being confusing; let's take this one away for now and clean the GKE later.

     ```
    </CodeBlockConfig>
    </Tab>

    <Tab heading="Kubernetes Clusters with Gateway CRDs managed by cluster platforms">

    <CodeBlockConfig filename="values.yaml">

    ```yaml
    global:
      installK8sNetworkingCRDs: false
      crds:
        consulapi:
          enabled: false
    connectInject:
      enabled: true
      apiGateway:
        manageExternalCRDs: false
        manageNonStandardCRDs: true
     ```
    </CodeBlockConfig>
    </Tab>
  </Tabs>

## API Gateway Reconciliation

Starting Consul 2.0, Consul only reconciles API gateway resources that meet specific requirements. For Consul to manage an API gateway, the gateway must:

1. Include the required labels in the gateway metadata

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Standard API Gateway">

<CodeBlockConfig>

```yaml
labels:
  component: api-gateway  
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Consul API Gateway">

<CodeBlockConfig>

```yaml
labels:
  component: api-gateway-consul 
```

</CodeBlockConfig>
</Tab>

</Tabs>
2. Specify the correct controller name that matches the gateway type.

Consul validates both criterias before reconciling the gateway object.

## Standard API Gateway

> For the standard Kubernetes Gateway API (using `gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1`), the gateway must:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the standard Kubernetes Gateway API (using API Group `gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1`), the gateway must:
```

Reviewer 4: taken the sugegstion as it is

- Set the `gatewayClassName` to reference a GatewayClass with controller name `consul.hashicorp.com/gateway-controller`
- Include the label `component: api-gateway` in the metadata

Example configuration:

<CodeBlockConfig>

```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Gateway
metadata:
  name: api-gateway # can be modified 
  namespace: consul # can be modified
  labels:
    component: api-gateway # Do not modify this
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

## Consul API Gateway

> For the  Consul Gateway resource (using `consul.hashicorp.com/v1beta1`), the gateway must:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the  Consul Gateway resource (using API Group `consul.hashicorp.com/v1beta1`), the gateway must:
```

Reviewer 4: taken the suggestion as it is.

- Set the `gatewayClassName` to reference a GatewayClass with controller name `consul.hashicorp.com/gateway-controller-consul`
- Include the label `component: api-gateway-consul` in the metadata

Example configuration:

<CodeBlockConfig>

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1beta1
kind: Gateway
metadata:
  name: api-gateway-consul # can be modified
  namespace: consul # can be modified
  labels:

>     component: api-gateway-consul # Do not mnodify this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    component: api-gateway-consul # Do not modify this
```

Reviewer 4: corrected the spelling.

--->

[tech-specs]: /consul/docs/north-south/api-gateway/k8s/tech-specs

> [rel-notes]: /consul/docs/release-notes

Reviewer: Having document content after this section is incorrect as indicated by line 177. Please relocate the content starting from line 184 before line 176.

> # Enable new custom API gateway for Kubernetes

Reviewer: We should focus not on the fact that this is a "new" gateway but rather a "custom" one that it offers more functionality for OCP

```suggestion
# Enable custom API gateway for Kubernetes
```

> The Consul custom API gateway using `consul.hashicorp.com/v1beta1` provides native Consul integration and ships with Consul. It is automatically available when you install Consul on Kubernetes. Before you begin the installation process, verify that the environment you are deploying Consul and the custom API gateway in meets the requirements listed in the [Technical Specifications](/consul/docs/north-south/api-gateway/k8s/tech-specs). Refer to the [Release Notes](/consul/docs/release-notes) for any additional information about the version you are deploying.

Reviewer: This is a copy of line 14 and is not descriptive enough on why a practitioner would use a custom API gateway instead of the standard one.

- If it is a separate section in the document, there should be separate content with it.
- If it's the same content as earlier - it should be a just tab with the related explanation and different Helm chart values

After committing to a choice, review until line 375

           cpu: "500m"
     ```
    </CodeBlockConfig>
    </Tab>

  </Tabs>

1. Install Consul custom API Gateway using the standard Consul Helm chart or Consul K8s CLI specify the custom values file. Refer to the [Consul Helm chart](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul-k8s/releases) in GitHub releases for the available versions.

  <Tabs>
  <Tab heading="Consul K8s CLI (Mac Only)">
  
  Refer to the official [Consul K8S CLI documentation](/consul/docs/reference/cli/consul-k8s) to find additional settings.
  
  ```shell-session
  $ brew tap hashicorp/tap
  ```
  
  ```shell-session
  $ brew install hashicorp/tap/consul-k8s
  ```
  
  ```shell-session
  $ consul-k8s install -config-file=values.yaml -set global.image=hashicorp/consul:1.17.0
  ```
  
  </Tab>
  <Tab heading="Helm">
  
  Add the HashiCorp Helm repository.
  
  ```shell-session
  $ helm repo add hashicorp https://helm.releases.hashicorp.com
  ```
  
  Install Consul with custom API Gateway on your Kubernetes cluster by specifying the `values.yaml` file.
  
  ```shell-session
  $ helm install consul hashicorp/consul --version 1.3.0 --values values.yaml --create-namespace --namespace consul
  ```
  
  </Tab>
  </Tabs>

> <!--

Reviewer: This is copy/paste content from line 176. Adjust accordingly so that this only appears once at the end of the document

****** KEEP ALL PAGE CONTENT ABOVE THIS LINE *******
Only Reference style links should be added below this comment
--->

[tech-specs]: /consul/docs/north-south/api-gateway/k8s/tech-specs
[rel-notes]: /consul/docs/release-notes

# API gateway reconciliation

> Starting with Consul 2.0, Consul reconciles only API gateways that are controlled by Consul and contain the required labels in the API gateway object. Consul validates the object at two levels: the object must contain the appropriate label and the controller name of the object must match.

Reviewer: It is unclear what `Consul API gateway reconciliation` is, when it happens, what it involves, and does it involve downtime.

## Standard gateway

> For the standard Kubernetes Gateway API, use the following labels:

Reviewer: Use the following to achieve what results?

Author: API Gateway won't be reconciled without these labels.

<CodeBlockConfig>

```yaml
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Gateway
metadata:
  name: api-gateway # can be any
  namespace: consul
  labels:
    component: api-gateway # should be this
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

## Custom Consul gateway

> For the custom Consul Gateway resource, use the following labels:

Reviewer: Again, what happens when this code is applied by the practitioner?

Author: it reconciles
